---
layout: post
title: Imma goin.
image: https://journeyofloyaldissent.files.wordpress.com/2012/04/lonely-journey.jpg
date: '2015-12-09 16:34:15'
tags:
- rants
---

Vans in a vile, yu shud rait for yuvarself to reed. I don't mind if peepil find it difikalt to anderstand. Ayam riting 4 maiself ant has novan to keyar for. 

I hav writen a hellot of staf for athar peeple. I rait opinian peeses so dat peeple hav a gud time anderstanding the staf dey atharvais has tu put in a lotof efart to anderstand.

The parpas of languaj ees to kammunikate. Vile I admayar dhi byuti of a vel strakchered sentes or an artikil, samtaimes dhi idiya of the artikil ees kompramaised so dat the artikil is gramatikaly perfekt.

Ven u tri tu rait ine maner dat is difikalt tu komprehend, yu aar telling yuvarself how dipendant vee aar on a strakchered setap. Vee aal aar so mach yoosd tu dhi sistem so dat we haav a hard taim anderstanding how tvisted it ees.

Vee breeth sistem, vee aar submerjed en sistem. Vee aar difained bai sistem. Ai haav tu fait hard with mai veri on fingers so dat ai kud rait dhis.

Aafter a fyu sentanses, Ai kno dhat battling dhi sistem ees a seeriyas affayar onli 4 dhi fast a fyu steps. Vans yu start valking, yu get yusd tu dhi nyu sistem fast.

Cheyinj ees not for dhe best alvays. But dhere is no haarm in traying. Ven Ai teech my kid tu reed and rait, Ai vud tell him dhat dhis sort of raiting is not rong, but dat dhi peeple eround yu aar not gud enaf to taik it ap.

Dhe aar dambed davn by dhe sistem so that everithing has an oder. A venchar vans in a vile to dhe boundaries of human sivilaizashan helps yu anderstand how vee haav lost avar orijinality tu sistem of sistems.

If yu hav red so faar, yu aar a reinjar. Yu wud go distanses. Ol dhi  veri best!